---
layout: docs
title: API
section: fast-render
permalink: /fast-render/api
---

FastRender comes with a lot goodies, those are shown here with examples.

* [FastRender.route(urlPattern, callback)](#fastrenderrouteurlpattern_callback)
* [FastRender.onAllRoutes(callback)](#fastrenderonallroutescallback)
* [this.subscribe(name, arg1, arg2, ...)](#thissubscribename_arg1_arg2_)
* [this.find(collectionName, query, options)](#thisfindcollectionname_query_options)
* [this.completeSubscriptions(subscriptionList)](#thiscompletesubscriptionssubscriptionlist)
* [this.userId](#thisuserid)
* [Meteor.user() and Meteor.userId()](#meteoruser_and_meteoruserid)

## FastRender.route(urlPattern, callback)

This is the core of FastRender, which pick your pages on the server and allow to send the data to the client. `urlPattern` is compatible with [ExpressJS](http://expressjs.com/api.html#app.VERB) and [IronRouter](https://github.com/EventedMind/iron-router#dynamic-path-segments).

`callback` runs in a context very similar to Meteor and you can use any Meteor APIs inside it. (It runs on a Fiber)

`callback` comes with an object which has the values for keys defined on the URL.

Eg:-

    FastRender.route('/post/:_id', function(params) {
      console.log(params);
    })

When you access a page on <http://localhost:3000/post/meteor-rocks> following will be shown on the console.

    {_id: "meteor-rocks"}

## FastRender.onAllRoutes(callback)

You can register a callback(or many callbacks) which will runs on all routes. All you can do with `FastRender.route` is available for here as well.

`callback` will be called with the **URL Path** as the first argument.

Eg:-

picked from the Telescope's fastRender [configuration](https://github.com/arunoda/fast-render-telescope/blob/master/server/fastRender.js#L1-L3) config file.

~~~js
FastRender.onAllRoutes(function(path) {
  this.subscribe('currentUser');
})
~~~

## this.subscribe(name, arg1, arg2, ...)

This API is very similar to [`Meteor.subscribe`](http://docs.meteor.com/#meteor_subscribe). This will load the initial dataSet provided by `name` publication with given args. But, this **does not** make an active subscription on the server.

Eg:-

    FastRender.route('/post/:_id', function(params) {
      this.subscribe('blogPost', params._id);
    })

Once you visit to <http://localhost:3000/post/meteor-rocks>, FastRender calls the publication `blogPost` with arguments `meteor-rocks` and get the initial set of data provided by it. And those data will be embedded directly on the initial HTML page served by Meteor. 

Once the HTML page loaded, FastRender client utilities will take care of getting and rendering those data correctly.

## this.find(collectionName, query, options)

`this.subscribe` is not the only way you can send the data to the server, it is possible to manually select what your page requires and send it to the client. You can use this api for that.

`collectionName` could be either a name of the actual collection on the database or a Meteor's collection object.

Eg:-

    FastRender.route('/post/:_id', function(params) {
      //send the blog post
      this.find('posts', {_id: params._id}, {fields: {body: 1}});
      
      //send comments
      this.find(Comments, {post: params._id}, {limit: 10});
    })

## this.completeSubscriptions(subscriptionList)

This api will cheat the Meteor client and say the subscription is completed. This will be useful, if you are showing some loading state(possibly with IronRouter waitOn) on the client until the subscription is completed. 

In those cases, even if the data is available on the client, you can't render them on the screen. This api helps to tackle that. `this.subscribe` internally does that for you.

`subscriptionList` accepts an array of names or a single name.

Eg:-

    FastRender.route('/post/:_id', function(params) {
      //send the blog post
      this.find('posts', {_id: params._id}, {fields: {body: 1}});
      this.completeSubscriptions(['blogPost']);
    })

## this.userId

This is very useful, if your app requires authentication. FastRender works with those scenarios and it knows the loggedIn user inside `FastRender.route`. You can get the userId of loggedIn user with `this.userId`.

FastRender does this with sending the loginToken with cookies. The cookie will be set on the client. So, in order to take the use of this API, your client needs to be loaded once on the user's browser.

> `this.userId` is available inside `FastRender.route`, `FastRender.onAllRoutes` and the Meteor publications(with `this.subscribe`).

## Meteor.user() and Meteor.userId()

`Meteor.user()` and `Meteor.userId()` is very handy if you need to implement some extra logic for loggedIn users. This is identical to the above `this.userId` API. 

But also, this can be used inside _**IronRouter `waitOn()`**_ where `this.userId` is not available.
